good afternoon my name is a pedestrian
I'll take the break from listening to
Testament special talk to you about the
traditional English thumbstick can do
this it's the treasured icon of the
countryman who goes out everywhere with
it and he keeps it in the hall and he
handed down through the generations and
I'm going to show you what I think is
that this is something that dries
useless and I'm going to show you how to
cut a proper stick and let's go and find
some hazel hazel that's been allowed to
grow 30 max in it's not very much to be
hazel should be coppiced regularly every
7 years and then you get a succession of
hazel rods from you
and that's what you want he's like this
last generation getting big like this
anyway we found ourselves a suitable
hazel rod and with my little saw here
I'm gonna string cut it off at the face
much too long as it is hazel stick it's
not haven't got a cleft in the top but
it's gonna be much more useful because
it's you've got the thicker ending in
hand and your filler in the bottom is
quite whippy that's what you want
rambles you need and it doesn't cherish
thickens need to look nice it just needs
to be effective and it's thick enough to
support you it's also a unique and I
might use three or four of these
throughout the season just find another
one break never without it so it's going
to find a bit of vegetation to smash
with a stick
okay so here we are then just the hazel
stick here's some vegetation near the
style this is a traditional English
footpath Commission will recycle plastic
post not back the vegetation with my
stick anymore any normal person is out
walking has a stick and they can do the
same it's much better to do that than to
start writing to your local authority
complaining about a cut there nettles so
if you click sticking you you can deal
with it yourself and then explicit comes
on a lid got a stick here we hold our
stick nice and bendy this is the thick
in in the base of the trunk this is a
bit more holding on to you also a little
bit of a handle that sort of occurs so I
heard them it's just just beat the
vegetation back
nettles will you cut metals they really
get invigorated and they start it's not
growing much thicker and faster if you
break them don't actually sever them
breaks the wheel and they kind of strode
along they don't really do anything very
actually better off breaking minute we
just lies there
for me but with your stick you can break
that off as well
whippy enough to do that
pretty but it's pretty effective so now
you are then ready you hazel stick it's
not a thumb stick it's just a stick
don't get too possessive about its
you're probably on that breaking it
another one there's plenty of it around
plenty of hazel about you're not doing
the tree any harm because in these
coppicing it needs cutting away so many
other things you can do with it you can
point blank in the deep puddle zod they
are poke in the mud you can turn the
Flint's over in a field and looking for
you're looking for prehistoric Flint
like I always am if you're gonna feel
the horses in it you can stick it on
your arm like this because when they
come up behind you personally do is
problem selves on my nose with a stick
and then they go away but otherwise
there's something so there's many
functions for hazel stick it's a good
companion don't get too attached you'll
end up breaking it so there we are thank
you this is a pedestrian this is a style
this is a footpath I'm going for
you